Let's now move into the cube related interfaces and classes.
The thing about Q Is it extends collection as we already know so it about supports all the collection
elements.
Q is usually used for things like processing kind of a thing.
So I want to store the elements in the order I want to process them and I would want to be able to take
the top element from the collection and process it.
Those are the kinds of places where we use cues as you can see.
Q extant collection and it has a method to add.
So this is basically to add element into a queue.
This is to offer an element into the queue.
So this is basically similar to add.
Basically we are adding an element into the queue.
Also there is a remove method which is present in the queue which is basically used to retrieve and
remove the head element to the top element on the queue will be turned back and removed.
Paul also does the same thing.
I mean it retrieves and removes the head of the queue.
But Paul returns NULL if the queue is empty.
However if you look at the momentum of the movement that would throw an exception if a queue is empty.
That's one thing you need to remember.
Always use a pool if you don't want an exception.
So if you're OK with getting an exception then go ahead and use the moment and peak would return the
element but it will not remove the element from the head of the queue.
A big Q is a double and a cube that's basically it supports the moving from both ends of the queue.
So you'd be able to add the first or added the last.
You can either offer first or for last.
You can remove from first or the move from last so you can actually either do it from the front of the
queue or from the back of the queue so the queue is basically that the queue is a collection where you
can actually insert elements at both sides of the queue and to be more at both sides of the queue as
well.
So this is what is called a double ended.
Q The other important interface is blocking.
Q So just to summarize whatever we have this because until now as part of the queue we talked about
the new interface first and then we went into the double ended queue interface and now we are looking
at the blocking queue interface the blocking queue interface is used when when you want to support operations
that wait for the queue to become non empty.
So what does that mean.
So I would want to get an element from the queue but the queue does not have any elements right now.
In that kind of situation I want to rate for an element to become available in those kind of situations.
We go for a blocking queue.
So interface blocking queues support those kind of use cases.
So basically I'm pulling at you.
Q Does not have any element I would want to still wait for sometime and wait for an element to be available.
Is grokking You also has a very similar method as the q interface except that it pro-white it puts more
constraints.
So first thing is I actually insert this element into the queue immediately but it throws an exception
in case of a failure.
However if you look at the offer of method it will return false in case of a failure.
And as expected there are often methods with a specific wait period as well.
So you can say I want to add this element to the queue but I only want to wait for a specific time.
I dont want to waiting for innately.
So if there is no space on the return back.
So thats basically the specified wait time.
So if I am if I want to insert an element into the queue and the queue is full I don't want to wait
for ever so I'm specifying of vague time.
So I think I would want to wait up at this time but no more.
The big Tick method would wait until the element becomes available until the next event is available.
The deck would wait for the elements to be available.
The pull method on the other hand can take a time unit it.
You can say I want to wait for this much time so I want to wait for this much time if there is no element
available.
So I want to wait for two minutes.
If the element is not available not more.
Basically we look at three interfaces right so one is the Q which is kind of the base of all the cube
interfaces.
Q You would want to store the elements for processing and if you have one where you would want you can
take the top element from the queue and process it so that queue doubling the queue is an extension
of the queue in the sense that you can actually have insertion and removal at the end.
So you support inserting removing polling and everything at both ends and blocking queue extends the
more for the use cases where I want to get the element from the queue.
But if the queue is empty I would want to be able to wait for a certain amount of time.
So in those kind of scenarios I would go for a blocking queue.
Not that we looked at the differences in dequeue kind of collections.
We will now look at a few implementations.
The priority queue is one of the famous queues.
It implements the queue interface so basically that in the priority queue the elements are sorted in
the natural order.
So the elements are stored according to the ordering which is natural to them that you were pretty cute.
You on the other hand is a double ended.
Q So as you can see it here it implements a double And cue the blocking queue.
Implement blocking cue.
So it uses array as the data underlying data structure but you can wait for a certain period before
an element becomes available.
The link blocking queue on the other hand uses linked list as the underlying data structure for blocking
queue.
The thing about the link blocking queue is typically they have better performance than aere blocking
But sometimes in very concurrent applications the performance is less predictable.
What we are trying to do in this we do is try to get a overview of the queue interfaces and the queue
implementations in one of the subsequent reviews in this section.
We'll look at some of the chord examples for these aspirin and think the next video brewing.